libopts extensions (#3354)
ElektraInitiative/libelektra: doc/tutorials/command-line-options.md

## Parameter Arguments

All unused elements of `argv` are be collected into an array. You can access this array by specifying `args=remaining` on a
key with basename `#`. The array will be copied into this key. As is the case with getopt(3) processing of options will stop,
if `--` is encountered in `argv`.

If `elektraGetOpts` is called with a `parentKey` that has `posixly = 1` set, then processing of options will also stop, when
a non-option argument is encountered. This is similar to the POSIX version of getopt(3). NOTE: `posixly = 1` must be set on
the parent key passed to `elektraGetOpts`, not in the specification itself.

Additionally, there is `args=indexed`. If it is specified on a key, the key must also have the metakey `args/index=N` set to
an integer `N`. Such a key will be set to the unused element at index `N`. If a key has `args=indexed` and `args/index=N`,
then there must also be keys for all integers `0 <= X < N` with `args=indexed` and `args/index=N` set. For example, you cannot
use `args/index=0` and `args/index=2` without `args/index=1`.

Combining `args=indexed` and `args=remaining` in the same specification (on different keys) is also possible. The key with

> `args=remaining` will only contain those elements not used via `args=indexed`.

Author: What do you mean with "which index the remaining args get"?

> `args=remaining` will only contain those elements not used via `args=indexed`.

Reviewer: If the returned KeySet of args=remaining is identical whether or not args=indexed are present.

> `args=remaining` will only contain those elements not used via `args=indexed`.

Author: > The key with `args=remaining` will only contain those elements not used via `args=indexed`.

i.e. if there is a `args/index=0` then `args=remaining` will not contain the first parameter.

> `args=remaining` will only contain those elements not used via `args=indexed`.

Reviewer: Yes, and to also clarify the returned (assigned) keys. E.g. `more/#0 = cherry` and not `more/#2 = cherry` even though it is the third parameter.

### Example

```ini
[from]
args = indexed
args/index = 0

[to]
args = indexed
args/index = 1

[more/#]
args = remaining
```

If an application `app` with the specification above is called as `./app apple banana cherry date`, then the keys will be
assigned as follows:

- `from = apple`
- `to = banana`
- `more/#0 = cherry`
- `more/#1 = date`

## Sub-Commands

> `elektraGetOpts` also supports sub-commands. For example calling `git -p add` and `git add -p` result in different behavior.

Author: It's not a difference, `git`  has the exact same behaviour  as `elektraGetOpts` with respect to sub-commands.

I will add a general explanation of the term "sub-command" before using the example to explain the effect on options-processing. (Explaining it without the example will only get more confusing.)

> `elektraGetOpts` also supports sub-commands. For example calling `git -p add` and `git add -p` result in different behavior.

Reviewer: > It's not a difference, git has the exact same behaviour as elektraGetOpts with respect to sub-commands.

This was unclear to me, adding this information would be very valuable.

> I will add a general explanation of the term "sub-command" before using the example to explain the effect on options-processing. (Explaining it without the example will only get more confusing.)

Good!

This is because the options that `git` understands are separate from the options that its sub-command `add` knows. However,
the option `-p` is understood by both. In `git` it is short for `--paginate` and in `add` it is short for `--patch`.

> The first thing you need to know about sub-commands is that they imply `posixly = 1` mode. This means **all** options must

Author: If sub-commands are used (i.e. the spec parent has `command = `), yes. Otherwise, no.

> The first thing you need to know about sub-commands is that they imply `posixly = 1` mode. This means **all** options must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing you need to know about sub-commands is that they turn on `posixly = 1` mode. This means **all** options must
```

be given before any non-option arguments (such as parameters or sub-commands). Otherwise, we couldn't distinguish between
`git -p add` and `git add -p`.

A sub-command is created by specifying `command` on a key. To enable sub-command processing the parent key of the whole
specification must have `command` set to an empty string. All keys marked with `command` **directly** below another
key `K` marked with `command` (e.g. the parent key) are sub-commands of `K`. It is an error, if the immediate parent of
a key `X` marked with `command` is not marked with `command` and `X` is not the parent of the whole specification.

To inform the application about the invoked sub-commands, `elektraGetOpts` sets each `command` key to one of two values:

> - All invoked sub-commands `S` will be set to `XYZ`, where `XYZ` is the base name of the key whose sub-command of `S` was invoked.

Author: I will rewrite the sentence. The idea is that in the example below, e.g. `kdb`  is set to `setter` when `kdb set` is invoked.

For example consider `./app add more`: The parent key will be set to `add`, the key for `add` will be set to `more` and
the key for `more` is set to an empty string, because none of its sub-commands were invoked.

Every key considered by `elektraGetOpts` is assigned either to the root command, or a single sub-command. Specifically,
each key is assigned to the command of its immediate parent. If sub-commands are used and the immediate parent of an `opt`
or `args` key has no `command` metadata an error occurs. The value of a key will **only** be set by `elektraGetOpts`, if
the corresponding sub-command was invoked.

Lastly, it is allowed to have keys with `args` and `command` below the same parent. If a matching sub-command is found among
the `command` keys, processing will continue there. Otherwise, the `args` keys will be considered. This allows an application
to implement dynamic commands (like `git` or `kdb`) by using the `args=remaining` array to invoke another application.

If an unknown sub-command is encountered without an `args` key, an error is returned.

All of this is best understood with an example:

```ini
[kdb]
command = ""

[kdb/printversion]

> type = boolean

Reviewer: Some description texts here might be helpful. Ideally, this would be identical to the KeySet used in the example below.
